# Compound Types

Compound types are types that can hold multiple values. Unlike scalar types that represent a single value, compound types allow you to group multiple values of the same or different types together. The two main compound types in Rust are arrays and tuples.

## Arrays

- An array is a fixed-size collection of elements of the same data type.
- Array elements are stored in contiguous memory locations.
- Once an array is created, its size cannot be changed.

```rust
let name: [type; size] = [value1, value2, value3, ...];
```

```rust
let numbers: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
```

Indexing an array starts from 0. For example, to access the first element of the array numbers, you would use numbers[0].

## Tuples

- A tuple is a heterogeneous collection of elements of different data types.
- Tuples have a fixed size, like arrays.
- Once a tuple is created, its size cannot be changed.

```rust
let name: (type1, type2, type3, ...) = (value1, value2, value3, ...);
```

```rust
let person: (String, i32, bool) = ("Foo".to_string(), 07, true);
```

You can access tuple elements using a period (.) followed by the index (starting from 0) of the element you want to access. For example, to access the second element of the tuple person, you would use person.1.

## Arrays and tuples

Both arrays and tuples have their uses in different scenarios:

- Use arrays when you have a fixed number of elements of the same type, and you need to perform operations on them efficiently.
- Use tuples when you need to group elements of different types together, especially when the number of elements is small and not expected to change.

:::info Size
Remember that arrays and tuples are fixed-size, so if you need a dynamically resizable collection of elements, you should use Rust's standard library collection types like Vec (for variable-length arrays) or HashMap (for key-value pairs).
:::