# Enums

enum is a custom data type that allows you to define a type by enumerating its possible values. Enums are a powerful tool for representing and working with various distinct and named values in a structured manner. They are similar to enums in other programming languages, but Rust's enums come with some unique features and capabilities.

```rust
enum EnumName {
    Variant1,
    Variant2,
    // ... more variants
}
```

Each value in an enum is called a "variant." Variants can be thought of as different states that a value of the enum type can take. Enums can also store associated data with each variant, allowing you to create rich and flexible data structures.

Here's an example of an enum with associated data:

```rust
enum IpAddress {
    V4(u8, u8, u8, u8), // Associated data for IPv4 address
    V6(String),        // Associated data for IPv6 address
}
```

You can create instances of an enum's variants and access their associated data like this:

```rust
let ipv4 = IpAddress::V4(192, 168, 1, 1);
let ipv6 = IpAddress::V6(String::from("2000:db8::1"));

match ipv4 {
    IpAddress::V4(a, b, c, d) => println!("IPv4 address: {}.{}.{}.{}", a, b, c, d),
    IpAddress::V6(s) => println!("IPv6 address: {}", s),
}
```

Enums in Rust are especially useful when working with pattern matching, which allows you to handle different cases of the enum in a structured and concise manner. Pattern matching helps you avoid errors and ensures that you handle all possible cases explicitly.

Enums can also have methods associated with them using the `impl` block, just like structs.

Rust enums are a foundational concept for building safe and expressive code. They enable you to model your domain in a way that's easy to understand and maintain, while also leveraging Rust's strong type system to catch errors at compile time.

## Result enum

it  is a common and powerful type used for error handling. It provides a way to represent the result of an operation that can either be successful (`Ok`) or result in an error (`Err`). This helps you handle errors in a structured and predictable manner without resorting to exceptions or error codes.

The Result enum is defined as follows:
```rust
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```

- T represents the type of the value that's returned when the operation is successful.
- E represents the type of the error that can occur.

Here's an example of using the Result enum to handle file I/O:

```rust
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::Read;

fn read_file_contents(file_path: &str) -> Result<String, std::io::Error> {
    let mut file = File::open(file_path)?;

    let mut contents = String::new();
    file.read_to_string(&mut contents)?;

    Ok(contents)
}

fn main() {
    match read_file_contents("example.txt") {
        Ok(contents) => println!("File contents: {}", contents),
        Err(error) => println!("Error reading file: {}", error),
    }
}
```

:::info
Using Result enums encourages explicit error handling and helps prevent unexpected crashes or undefined behavior due to unhandled errors. This approach ensures that you handle potential errors in a controlled manner and can provide appropriate feedback or recovery mechanisms to users of your code.

Additionally, Rust provides several methods and combinators on Result that make it easier to work with, such as map, and_then, and unwrap, allowing you to transform and manipulate Result values while preserving their error-handling semantics.
:::

## Option enum

The Option enum is used to represent the presence or absence of a value. It is often used to handle cases where a value might be missing (null or undefined in other languages). The `Option` enum has two variants: `Some(T)` to represent a value and `None` to represent the absence of a value.

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}

fn find_element(arr: &[i32], target: i32) -> Option<usize> {
    for (index, &value) in arr.iter().enumerate() {
        if value == target {
            return Some(index);
        }
    }
    None
}

fn main() {
    let numbers = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let target = 3;

    match find_element(&numbers, target) {
        Some(index) => println!("Found at index: {}", index),
        None => println!("Element not found"),
    }
}
```

Ordering and Range enums can be also helpful depending on your needs.